So semi groups are everywhere,
like, everywhere.
And so the main thing you have to kind of
think about when you're defining a semi
group is what if we make this operator
this kind of like special operator here
and we're going to overload it with
plus union intersection, disjunction,
conjunction and pretty much any operator.
We can do max and min in the same way
with min greater than and less than.
So if I said one greater than
three greater than seven or
zero, whatever, we can do that
associatively and it's closed.
So semigroups are everywhere.
And we're going to define them
in programming as a datatype.
So let's do Sum.
And we're going to call that special
operator, we're just going to have
a method because we don't want to do
operator overloading in JavaScript.
It's a pain in the butt gives
like value of tricks and whatnot.
So we're going to go ahead and
just do it this way.
So if I'm gonna concat
a sum with another sum,
well let's actually start
with what we gonna write so
we'll say 3 concat sum of 5, and
what we want is the sum eight.
Now that's a weird thing to do.
[LAUGH] What we're trying to do is make an
interface that we're programming to that
captures all those examples that I was
just talking about with the semi groups.
So we have these binary operators that can
be implemented in many different ways and
they're associative and closed.
We can make an interface on an object and
say around a type and
just say concat is that operator, right?
It concats the thing on the left with
the right and it's associative and
it's closed, meaning I will always
get a sum out if I concat two sums.
So let's go ahead and implement this.
Sum we're always going to return a sum and
we have to expose this x here.
So I can get the x off the other.
So we'll say sum x plus other.x,
so everybody see how that works.
That's a it's a bit of
an interesting syntax.
You don't see it very often.
With these little factory functions,
I just,
it's the slimmest way to define this
kind of stuff and I just stick with it.
But is anybody getting hung up on this?
Okay, so
we're going to do is hopefully this
will say sum of eight,
I think monoids zero.
It's not really going to say sum of eight,
but x is eight, and it's got a concat.
So that's our sum.
We can define a two string on it.
That would be nice, but
let's not go through that.
So we can do this with products.
Let's go ahead and do this with products.
And that would be just multiplication,
right?
Instead of plus, cool.
So let's change sum to product.
Three times five and
we should get the products.
There we go.
Oops products.
Sum five.
What did I do here?
There we go.
And there we are.
15 how about let's do any,
which is the name for this or that.
So let's say any is x for the other one.
I could say any true concat any false.
Okay, and so if either of these are true,
we'll get an any true and
if either, so
we can just run that real quick.
Get true.
They're both false, we'll get false.
This kind of captures that idea
of running through an array and
seeing if anything is true or false.
It combines everything and tells you
the answer of if you had a true or
false, so we can see we're going
to see some of these in action.
But I just want you to get a feel for
what's happening.
We're lifting this
operation into a type so
we can program to
the interface called concat.
And then we can swap these types out.
But concat always behaves the same way.
Perhaps the interesting
the simplest one is just strings.
Say hi [LAUGH] concat it's already
built in got an explanation.
And bam.
We get hi.